========
4. Coase
========

:focus: how size and structure of companies is determined and it ain't management cleverness. 

THere must be acoase minimum - how is that changing.
	
Why are companies the size and structure they are. why are some
companies more successful than others, seemingly able to take on more
challenges at faster speed?

these questions are the reason bookshops groan under the weight of hardback business books trying to sell the answers, but they also are deeply important questions for humans globally - the organisation, be it commercial company, government department or city hall is the umbrella of protection for almost all humans alive today - for legal protection, income and environment

Solow and productivity.
Productivty praradox, iphone and electrification of factories

COase and theory of firm
size of firms -> BAML vs google.

New firm

Programmable company:

* the entirity of business is in code. Not in the middle management,
  not in "how we do things"
  
  the approval workflow system is an example of how good but unavailable idea holds things back dramatically. scalability is not just size but speed as well
  
  designing your processes for scale matters too
  

We can see Apple Run book / operations managemet as the earlu step in this world
But a completely what-if, flexible company will be anle to turn on a dime.

But this will come at costs - humans dont do well and need ther sort of explanation and mission and feed into decision making

Imagine everyone having their own engaged model of the company (ciuntry) and arging which is best format.  May never decide? or may just go with flow?


http://www.fooledbyrandomness.com/employee.pdf
Excellent take on coase minimum 

So in modern world the process is thenthings - a single slip up causes horro - something a s project mange I know too well.  Approvals ...

And so what is needed is solutions to this - continuous integration is tried - but this is fixing things after they gone wrong - just really quickly after they go wrong

Apples vaunted process is to model the process correctly first

And this is my argument for the new company - the programmable company is one where all the interactions are programmed and viable in pre-production allowing choice, optimisationand modelling


Why companies are not really command and control
------------------------------------------------

Politics gets in the way.  At the point at which internal polirics (conpettion over resources)
starts haveing serious consequesnces is my view ofr the coase minimum


An interesting blog by google about manifesto

Idea was as got further on in career stopped doing the coding and
started doing the "what needs to be done and how" stuff

But this is precisely what a market is good at. 

Looking at my experience of large companies an awful lot of management
(risk and project) is just competing with other people to be first to
look viable and have a following - thisnis ridiculous Ina centrally
planned economy of a company - you may as well do it properly and have
a market place (tournament style promotions etc) especially as there
is less likelihood of Values conflicts

Of course not everyone Is an entrepreneur- everyone more likely to be
of their basic income is protected.


Also why airbucks.io is an example of project that works in
marketplace but notninside company
